hi everyone and welcome to the
ipfs core implementations weekly sync
for monday the 27th of july 2020.
um i'm picking brain i'll be your host
we're going to go through
our high priority initiatives or other
initiatives
have q a design review proposals parking
lot that kind of thing
uh super good so kicking off the
high priority initiatives is upcoming
and ship releases
did anybody ship anything
we do have a tracking issue for go ipfs
0.7
um i will add that but that is
not slated to release still later in
august
cool i'm hoping to release uh 49
of js ipfs later this week that will
contain
um oracle's work on a
shared ipvs note between tabs it will
include
new the new pinning
refractor so pins stored in the data
store which will be lightning fast for
adding and a host of other small bug
fixes so yeah hopefully that will be out
by the end
um so moving on to the next high
priority initiative
is the pinning services please do you
have an update
so we've got the issue stubbed out for
that uh the spec is
pretty much done there might be some
small tweaks along the way
i think there's a created
time issue there a time stamp for
created i need to look at that and
review that
but other than that that work should be
ready to start i think we'll likely wrap
up the
ed key work um and then move on to to
that
awesome um is there any further update
on the ed25519 keys
yes uh there we were
words um there was an issue we were
currently sorry brain sharna's tests
are fixed um now we're looking at the
petars
pr open for finishing up the iip next
keys as base 36 by default
um there was some nice to haves that i
think
dean was looking at in terms of um
pure ideas base 36 cids um
dean did you want to talk about that
yeah i think we're likely going to leave
the priorities as being emitted as
base 58 multi hashes by default but we
definitely need to make go multi adder
parse base 36 or parse cids
um so yeah just so that we can do this
in the future with with less problems
[Music]
radical the next one is the second air
removal
yeah so we are currently working on
planning the removal of sec-io
um this is a long time coming uh sakaio
was never meant to be a permanent thing
um now that libby noise support is out
we're gonna look
at um setting a timeline for rolling out
the removal in go ipfs
tentatively we're targeting 0.7 for that
um and then we're currently evaluating
this week
looking at what pl infrastructure we
have up
um and then kind of the rollout of that
secio removal we're also trying to be
cognizant of
um especially things like js ipfs like
upgrading because only
four seven has the pdp noise we have the
ability to add
noise like backwards compatible down to
like oh
41 i think but really figuring out
making sure that we have
the support there for the various
implementations to
allow for that so we're going to be
working this week on
um communication of that what the
rollout plan looks like
for that and then trying to help support
um
teams with upgrading either just
updating configs
like for example using orbitdb like
if you're gonna right now i think it's
still on ob46 so
in theory you can just plug in lippy to
be noise to that version of ipfs
but making sure that there's a clear
path for people to be able to do that
we want to make sure that we we have
that support so we're evaluating that
this week
are we going to be able to um pull out
any of uh
the peter p's crypto dependencies if we
don't need sakai anymore
um that is a good
question maybe um i'll have to look at
that
it'll be awesome if we could make the
bundle smaller yeah
yeah cool uh next up the rust ipvs
initiative
lots of lots of activity here
hey everybody uh yeah uh so
the big news is that dht and
content discovery is is working now
so we're one step closer to getting a
bootstrap pier that can connect with the
global swarm and get
intent content um we've
already rewritten the unix fs adding
component
but uh it's much better now and um
the final little bit of fun is that uh i
spun up an orbit db node and tried to
interface with rust ipves uh via the
http apis
um like you would a go node and it
almost
worked um i was expecting a lot of like
http
errors and stuff but we have over 150
passing conformance tests now
by the http api so it's it's really
close to being there there's a couple
persistence issues to work out but uh
we should have full compatibility there
pretty soon too
it's exciting stuff thank you that is
awesome
um i've been looking into the uh like
the timeout stuff as well
um trying to pull out the like default
timeline basically what happens is when
you
pass a timeout argument to any api call
it sets the timeout on the client as
well as the server
so i've been looking at pulling it out
from the client um
nearly there with that but it's still a
little bit done so
it's a little bit that needs to be done
to finish that off oh awesome okay i'll
pass that along to
the the gang thank you
uh next up is jessica p2p um
signed peer records and got itself v 1.1
yes so in the signed peer reviewer side
of things the the last pr that we had
opened
was for the certified address book it is
now merged
so in this site of initiative we have
everything now
uh merged in the lipid peak core more
precisely in the 0.29 branch that we
will
merge when do we do the release and
gossip sub 1.1 in rendezvous
working progress branches already are
using this version
um and yeah in the gossip server 1.20
side of things
uh basically the peer exchange pr which
included the sample records was also
merged in the branch for the 1.1
and cayman is now currently working on
more tests he's basically inspiring
on the go implementation tests and is
guaranteeing that all the flaws that go
is testing
we are also testing in js which i think
it's a
good call uh so for closing this
initiative
we basically need to close the working
progress
step that we already have there is this
test and also
uh there is the refactor of the base
implementation of pub cell
and with that update flood sub and
go into the interrupt tests with go and
yeah that's pretty much
about the signpl hackers in gossip so
for the improved discoverability and
connectivity in js
so there are hindu work it's mostly
ready for review again uh i did a pr to
play the spec with the signed peer
record
i also aligned with jacob last week or
now we should integrate
renew we will start by uh
using it as an external module and
eventually
as soon as we flush out better the the
api and we get feedback from the
first users we'll eventually move it
inside liquid speed car but for now
we'll
have it uh outside uh and yeah the work
is
ready for the view but i think it will
not be a priority at the moment i need
to sync with jacob
but maybe we'll wait for the 0.29 before
uh getting into it again and yes so uh
i will also start working this week on
the other piece of the
this initiative which will be the
authorial
and that's it from me just in regards to
gossip sub i don't know if you saw but i
guess there were some issues
in like rust um
that caused a problem with go lippy
piece so
go lippy to p2p pub sub like the message
ids that come across
in the protobuf those are strings and i
think like
they will be go as interpreting those as
utf-8
which is problematic because people are
sending non-utf-8 strings um and so that
creates issues
on the go side of things and so like the
spec
is updated now to just change meshes ids
over to bytes
um and so we'll likely need to look at
we should probably look at for gossip
sub 1 1 also
just going in and figuring out like okay
let's let's do that conversion
i don't think it should be like too big
of an issue in js
um just because like we're not i think
we're just using it
um for hashing but we should we should
check that out there's an issue in
um jslippy to be pub sub i'll just link
that in the chat and put it in the notes
um that references
this issue um that links to all of the
the go go issues and issues and rust so
we should probably try to make sure that
we're
supporting that sooner rather than later
for whenever go actually switches over
yeah i'm i'm looking into it today or
tomorrow i didn't
yet look into those issues issues but
they are in my
mailbox so yeah i'm certainly go through
them
radical no more interpreting buffers as
utf-8 strings
that is it for the um the high priority
initiatives uh in the other initiatives
there is no update
on the sub domain gateway i can see
pending go okay there's 1.7
blog posts and docs i'm not going to ask
you to do it any
further update because there's an update
i'm ready to sell it okay cool um unix
v1.5 and go ipfs um
because the update is justice node has
appeared and
is going to take on the um
implementation of unique successfully
1.5
in go ipfs um
he's spinning up by the looks of the
issue i will post a
link
moving on the migration to multicast
keys in the block store that's shipped
um in the last version of church wfs so
that can be closed and removed
uh pinning system revamp um is yeah it's
really close i just want to
take a final pass over um garbage
collection
uh around the depth property of the pens
but that should be just like an eyeball
well
right lots of tests kind of operation um
it's small um super good to get that
done
uh shared ipfs node is the next thing to
talk about
goes up
okay sorry i'm muted um
yeah it's landed i'm very excited uh
thanks alex for leaving and learning
um there'll be more work happening on
that
namely i'm i've been mentioning in a
couple of weeks ago i said
idea of doing ipld with replication
uh so i've been having conversations
with textile team
uh to figure out how to proceed with
that
experiment and i think we want to move
the ipfs light
into the one of the protocol labs
organization
uh i think i was suggested to do the
ipfs work but i need to figure out who
can do the thing because i don't think i
have a privileges myself
and so part of the work would be try to
make
this work compatible with ipfs lite as
well so it can work with either
itfs um
sam the next one is improving
web file ad that is
something that alex took over and
landed the improvements to the js ipfs
uh and i'm going to update the web ui
pull request that i have there to take
advantage of those
obviously we will have to wait for ipfs
release to happen before we can pull it
in
but i'll update pull request to just
pull from
github and test it that way
so you should be able to just pull the
rc from npm you shouldn't need to use
github urls for things
like so every change to master has an rc
published so you should just be able to
use like
install ipfs and next and get the rc
great even better thank you
um cool that is it for the other
initiatives uh
do we have any design review proposals
blockers and asks
questions yeah
uh yeah so yes a few questions and and
one comment
uh the comment is that uh someone in
hackfest was trying to
um basically like
just be a dht server node and listen in
on content that they hear about and then
try to fetch the content as like a
caching mechanism but because go ipfs
has not yet done the multi-hash block
store migration
this is like annoying because the dht
only stores multi hashes
and you need to request cids
which means you sort of have to send
multiple requests to get your data
so there are multiple reasons to not
punt on the ipfs multi-hash thing
indefinitely
um that was just the comment
questions were
is it on the roadmap anywhere for js
ipfs to add
the um
the ips over pub sub like uh
persistence changes that made it into
ipfs
a while ago or is or is that not being
tracked anywhere yet
a good question normally
as far as i know it's not being tracked
anywhere
we should open an issue okay cool yeah
it makes sense it's not it's not a huge
set of changes
and it only really makes a difference if
there
are it's only a it's only a bad thing
that it's not implemented if there's
like go and js nodes that are
both on the same pub sub topic because
then
the properties are like unclear because
like some of the nodes are doing one
thing and some are doing another thing
um okay and i think
that oh i guess one more was for pinning
services
um i saw that we are
we would like to do the mfs-based
pinning thing
um where you know when you update your
mfs you update your pins at the pinning
service
what happens with the pins that are
what happens with the previous pin
um how does how do you know when you can
garbage collect it or the pitting
service does does just get deleted
and it's the pinning services problem if
they want to keep it around longer
yeah so um in the pinning service api
there's an
update and operation which is
sort of like a porcelain on top of
remove old one and create totally new
one
which reuses the same metadata
and that's effectively what will happen
we leave it up to
pinning service to decide when to
garbage collect
the way this works is the moment you
update
uh that pin that all you you
you are no longer guaranteed that the
old pin is provided so if you change the
pin
to a different cid you no longer can
assume the data is for the whole cid is
still around but if you
just change metadata like nothing
changes effectively
okay so you would update it to have some
sort of like decay like don't store me
and definitely
store me for a week or something
is that how because how what am i
updating it to if not deleting it
yeah that's that's a good question so uh
the billing
itself is not a part of the spec right
now
uh there's an open pr to add a creation
date
which could be used by pinning service
to
uh reason or like create some
like building logic but it's like not
really part of the spec
it's not like when you pin something you
don't
there are no uh convention
at least not in the spec for i want to
pin this for a week
that could be something that spinning
service uh
like they each picking service could
have their own
logic uh to like override the default
behavior but the assumption is that like
there will be a default behavior which
user assigns to
the api token and
just use of that token would mean you
won't
use those defaults as i'm trying to
understand like what it would mean
when i update to a a new pin so i want
the new version to pin for sure and the
old one
may be less so how do i flag that do i
flag that by a deletion or buy
something else there's like there's
just you you could either remove the old
one and or create new one or just use
that single operation to
modify existing pin i don't think
there's any
difference whatever i think for the
client that's easier to modify because
that's like one request less
well i wasn't sure if we actually wanted
to keep around the old data or if that
was like a separate problem
no like for the specific use case when
we have like web ui
and you want to keep everything on the
file screen we like constantly update
the pin and we don't care about the old
one
okay thanks
i have a quick question about that um
that dht stuff is there like a good
reason why we're not putting cds in the
dht
and yeah okay why because
if i have the same piece of data that is
stored as cidv0 and cidv1
then i will have to do two dht puts and
two dht guests in order to guarantee
that i find it
yes but but like the problem that we're
i mean yes that sucks and like this is
kind of a legacy of cid
0 problem but the the multi-hash is not
that useful like it's the difference
between
data and data structures and if we're
moving to a model in which we're not
putting
every single block into the dht and
we're just putting the pins in
then those multi-hashes don't really
mean anything like they just say like oh
i have this block
for this root node um you're not saying
i have this graph
because that doesn't mean the graph um
like you need the actual city id for
that there's like a really like
huge drop in utility by shaving a couple
bytes off of this
you're not it's not shaving bites it's
it's saving many network round trips
so if we end up if slash one we end up
making it so you know you're only gonna
put uh
you know maybe only the root nodes into
the dht and you're going to put them in
not as
these like sort of records where you
just say
cid data but actually like a signed
record with more information
then yeah we can put cids potentially
back in there
maybe we could even put the bytes in
there twice and make the key the
multi-hash and the value include the cid
bits
could we so for this feature that we
have right now where instead of
broadcasting
everything you just broadcast the pins
when we do that could we just broadcast
them twice because then it's not a very
big set
yeah but then all the getters need to
get twice
also
the getters need to get twice i'm not
following that
oh sorry yes all right i can put twice
if everyone always puts twice
maybe that's okay if also everyone is on
the latest version
okay no well this is only for the case
when you're only putting the pins
the the pin roots in there um like
that's because
then you know you're only looking at a
dsp to establish that network and then
get
connected to a few you're not like doing
a ton of other lookups in the dsg for
every block down the graph
so we wouldn't worry about a lot of
round trips in that case you actually
actually end up with more than that just
it's not so
it's not just cidv0 and cdb1 it's only
civ
because what if the codec changes like
what happens if i
just switch it to use like raw instead
of dag seborr
no no no no no but you you don't you
don't pin a multicast
to like you pin a cid so what you would
do is you would broadcast that cid
and and the multi-hash for it you
wouldn't have to worry about another
representation of the cid because you
didn't pin that
i guess i'm confused what do i lose by
only using the multi-hash data
structures
like literally like it's the difference
between data and a data structure
because like if i if i can decode it
then i can potentially pull out links i
can like look at the semantic
information it it actually just means
something way
different when it's a cid versus but i
can just
yeah but i can just guess no you can't
once i once i grab the block no no you
can't guess
like that no no like you're you're
you're thinking you're thinking cidv0
everything is 256.
like shot two everything with eggpudy
but like in
in like all of the the new stuff that's
getting about if you're textile if
you're like these other folks you can't
just get
like you you really can't all you have
to guess is the
seabor dagpb
we have three more codecs coming people
are talking about more
not to mention like ethereum blocks and
get blocks and we just
took all of the bitcoin
blockchain and put it in as well
like there's a lot of codex um like you
really don't know
i'm telling you like you don't know but
more importantly if you
more importantly if you guess between
seaboard and deck support
things go like really bad yeah yeah
that's a good point
they only go bad for the root block
though right
well i mean there is nothing but the
root block if you decoded a seabor
[Laughter]
sure like that's the actual problem um
like like i mean if you look across
filecoin like
they may like one forced them to make
things cids
um against some people's objections when
it for a lot of identifiers
in order to have a lot of this
flexibility in the future
um and not just kind of future proofing
but just like having the representation
mean something a little bit different
and and locking that in and i really
would hate to see
like all of our use of the dht get
locked out of that
for like i i really i understand the
optimization of not wanting to two round
trips while we're in this limbo state of
migrating from cidv0 like that does suck
um but like if you're looking to the
future at all
like we really want to start thinking of
these cids wherever
possible um and in the case of the pins
like
like we can do it pretty efficiently
without worrying about the performance
overhead i agree that it would be
very problematic to change the defaults
of ipfs to broadcast every block twice
but i don't know i i guess i'm
i'm not sold because it's like network
internals
right like the ability to sniff on the
dht
is like not really a supported thing
and there's no real reason to make it
supported
well like if you look at the primary
uses of dhts other than
us and other than protocol labs like the
the hashes that get put into the dht
have an agreed upon semantic
understanding because they
they exist in the name space so like
when you look something up in the
bittorrent dht like you know that it's
going to be an infohash and so you can
you can create the data structure out of
it and like get that out of it we don't
have that benefit unless it's a cid
if it's if it's just a multi-hash then
we're just talking about binary data
um and we can't really like gain any
semantic representation out of it unless
it's a cid
um i mean that's like that's literally
like the entire kind of point of the
ideas
but couldn't i i mean you're sort of
assuming that cidv1 is also cid v
infinity
no no well if you support cdb1 you
support everything in the future like
with civ1 we have a a version in front
of the identifier in front of the
identifier
so if we need to switch to v2 like we
don't have to do all these changes
we're going to make it make me mute you
yeah we are over time yeah
this is an interesting discussion though
i think we should take this to a github
issue
um and get to the bottom of it um what
is data
anyway to someone who doesn't know what
they're looking at
um cool so thank you very much everyone
this has been the ips core invitations
weekly sync for the
27th of july 2020. see you
next week stay safe bye